How often did you go home?
Twice a year.
We went home at Christmas and because we're from Amarillo and it's 500 miles a little bit over there.
And we charter a bus.
I think one time my father might have came but I can't remember.
But generally speaking we have a panhandle group of bus go up there.
And he wouldn't get out of town until there was a crap game going on the floor of the bus.
I wasn't a crap shooter.
You don't have any idea what that bus trip cost, do you?
No, let's see.
I would imagine $25.
Did you take any other out-of-town trips much while you were a student?
Well, my freshman year, I went with...
I can still remember his name, Fish Desotel and G Company.
We got to be friends.
And he lived down at New Gulf, Texas.
His father was an engineer in a software business down there.
And I went home with him on Thanksgiving, I believe, my freshman year.
And I had a blind date.
But to be honest, I was with a bunch of guys in high school.
We were like a bunch of turkey goblers.
We kept ourselves.
We didn't have dates.
So I believe my first date I had was down there.
Let's see, during that time, was there a fish day?
Yeah, I want to tell you about the famous fish day.
Please, do.
It was the night of, before April the first, it would be the last night of March,
aired us out on the campus.
This was 1937, the night before April Fool, the next day.
They aired us out, and that meant that the sophomores, I can still remember running a guy strapping me with a belt behind a sophomore, and the fish all ran.
They came through the dormitories hauling air out at night, and I forget what time.
might have been 10 o'clock at night, something like that, probably when these two stay.
The sophomores all came with belts and the freshmen all over the campus lit out for the bushes and the trees and all, and stayed out a good part of the night until the sophomores finally went to bed.
And then we came back in, but next day, then we ran amok.
That was the famous, the last fish day probably in A&M's history is where the freshmen took over.
They all went down first place to the creamery
The time I got to the creamer, there was nothing left to eat or drink, but there were experiments going on down there.
Graduate students had them.
That was the end of the experiments.
The freshmen ate all the cheese, drank milk, ice cream.
There wasn't anything left when I got there, but the train came in about that time.
So I remember climbing up the side of the train and crawling through a window, and there was a woman passenger over there, and I think she liked to jump out of her pants because she jumped up kind of as I crawled through, and some of them rode the outside of the train, but I rode on the inside, and we went to Brian and got off the whole...
bunch of shenanigans.
Then we marched down the streets and it took over.
We went to the theater.
We had no money or we didn't pay for it.
We just marched in.
So we sort of took up the campus and the town too that day and then that afternoon they had a
I guess the various outfits had it.
I remember our outfit, they had a keg of beer and went out here to Fish Lake, I call it, and we threw the sophomores in the lake and when they got out we threw them back in.
We all ended up probably roarsely drunk coming back to the campus.
And you say that was about the last of the fish days?
Well, it was the last of the big one, because I think Lewis, if I'm not, I believe he was called Connors Lewis, he was a retired general, I think it was commandant here, and the next year General Moore came in, George Moore, and that was the end of the running amok fish days.
He diluted it down.
But I was a sophomore then, of course.
Let's see, the YMCA, what all went on at the YMCA?
Well, I guess they had, we just mainly had yell practice there at night, and then occasionally we're in there, but down below, originally had been a swimming pool down there, a natatorium.
Was it closed up?
It was closed when I was here, but they had a barber shop down there.
And so, I think, I can't remember, haircuts seemed like were kind of high down there.
They were either 50 or 50.
or 75 cents, and there was a guy in our outfit that could cut hair, so for two bits we got our hair cut those days.
We went in and sat on a little stool in his room, and he had pretty good hair.
I always wondered why he didn't stay a barber.
Anyhow, that was it.
And the snack bar, there was a snack bar there, wasn't there?
Down below, it's parts where you got drinks and stuff, below the YMC.
It's closed off now, but you can see where it used to open.
It's on the north side.
Where did you pick up your mail?
We picked it up in the old dome building, academic building.
We called it the academic building.
And we picked our mail up there.
Did your first year, were you obligated to pick up the mail for those upperclassmen?
No, I never remember picking up anything.
That wasn't part of being a maid?
No, I think everybody got his own mail.
I don't remember.
How often did you send letters home?
Oh, I don't know.
Probably...
Not too often.
And what did you get from home?
Well, as I remember, just a letter from my mother and information like that.
Do you remember any important telephone calls?
in your student years?
No.
My parents came down here though and I'll tell you something kind of funny.
My parents came down here in the spring of 37.
And I don't want to forget the Buffalo story either for 37.
And they came down here and so I think we had a meal in the mess hall and then you know there wasn't hardly any other place to eat around here.
So then we went to Bryan and we went over there I believe it was the Deluxe Cafe.
There was a Deluxe Cafe on Main Street and the
New York and we walked in my mother was in the lead and dad was behind I was bringing up the rear we walked in the door and one I think is one of the
Cesaris brothers had the cafe then and he walked up to the door to greet us and he had on a pretty dirty looking apron and my mother didn't say a word.
She looked at that apron.
She made a U-turn.
Another story I got to tell you, I was a witness to when President Walton came down and shot the last buffalo that A&M had.
The buffalo was behind the meat, you know where the meat, what they call the old meat slab is there?
It's, I don't know what building now it's called, but it was where it's… Near the pavilion?
Yeah, it's up on the, it's that tan brick building.
Well, that was the meat's laboratory there, in fact, the meat slab down below.
But that was the animal science building, and the meat slab was down in the basement, yeah.
Well anyhow, right behind that, out there behind that building,
there was a pen, and it wasn't very much a pen, and there was a buffalo, a big buffalo in there, and the kids at that time, Consolidate was in old Pfeiffer Hall, and they would come out of Pfeiffer Hall and come up that alley, and high school kids, and they would poke maybe some sticks too, and so one of that buffalo hadn't broken out, but he didn't, so I think somebody alerted the colleagues to that possible danger, and Dr. Walton came down there with his
Winchester 30-06 model 54 and shot the buffalo and I was one of the witnesses to it and then they hung him up in the meat slab and he's a big guy, I think he weighed about 1500 pounds, a big buffalo.
But now I never did get the story, see I came back in 46 and worked under Dr. Schmidt in the veterinary division of the experiment station over in Francis home.
We had the top floors there and he had mentioned one time they had buffalo out on the old veterinary pasture
research farm now, and whether that buffalo had any relation to those, he said they had some buffalo out there, and where they got them, I don't know, but anyhow, I was a witness to when President Walton shot the buffalo.
Did you ever go to the Quack Shack as a student?
The Quack Shack?
The hospital?
Oh, is that what they called it?
I don't remember that name, but yes, I went over there one time, and I can't remember now.
Oh, let's see, what?
I had something
I was there just a day or two, but I don't know what it was.
Do you remember who the doctors were?
Oh, yeah, Dr. Morris.
He had the reputation, if you went over there with a pain in your abdomen or stomach, you're going to lose your appendix.
But he was an expert on that.
And Ma Cleggern, yeah, she was a nurse.
I think she was an old Army nurse.
She was there with Dr. Morris.
Guyon Hall.
Yeah.
Do you remember any big events in Guyon?
Yeah, I can tell you a great big event.
never been duplicated before or since.
We were supposed to have our graduation this was 1941.
Now we didn't have finals that year so I got married the day after I graduated over here in Bryan and home and so we had a week off we went to Galveston on our honeymoon and then came back on the 4th of June I believe it was and got our diplomas so we had a week in there that we didn't take finals and so you do whatever.
We came back and so
My parents were there for graduation, all the parents were, and we were supposed to have it in Kyle Field, but Guy and Hall, you know, was a very long, narrow hall, and we were packed like sardines in that thing.
The parents were over here, and I never told this to very many people, but anyhow, all the graduates were in that long, narrow aisle of Guy and Hall standing up.
There was no place to sit down because parents had it on each side of it.
You'd know Guy and Hall, how narrow and long.
They started out, of course, with the A's, agricultural events.
We were very last to the back door back there.
So I don't know who it was.
I had a car my last year here.
I was here five years.
Last year I had a car.
And long after it had gone on so long, somebody said, hey,
Ted, let's go get a beer.
So there were about four of us got in my car, and nobody missed us.
We went over to the East Gate.
It's where Wilson Plumbing used to be.
I can't remember.
This building is still there, but that was where you'd get beer there in those days, on the East Gate.
So we went over there and had us a beer and came back, and nobody ever missed us.
So we were maybe one of the few senior graduating classes ever went to get a beer during graduation.
A beer during graduation.
Uh, what, uh, were there movies regularly in Guyon?
Yeah, and Sunday, oh, they were, they almost oughta had to pay you to go to them, but what we did in Guyon, not in Guyon Hall, in the old, uh,
What was that called, the old... Movie theater?
Movie theater, yeah, whatever it was called.
We'd go over there, and the main thing you did was buy peanuts for Nicholas Big Sac and throw peanuts.
But the government had old movies, those old depression movies that were, to us students, they were bore us to death.
So that was about what it was.
What about some of the big social events in Cebisa?
Yeah, they had like senior ring dance.
I remember I took my wife, well, we weren't married then, but wife-to-be to the senior ring dance, and I remember that they'd have band leaders come down for a couple of nights, like some of the top ones,
Dorsey's?
Dorsey and what was the black?
Duke Ellington?
Duke Ellington, yeah.
I think he was there when I was the senior ring dance when I took my wife to be there.
And the thing was so nice, the favors were the duplicate of your Aggie ring and a pin.
My wife had it for long years, but it finally disappeared, I think somebody told me.
All right, how did you meet this special young lady?
Well, she was, she'd grown up
out here in the Brass Bottom, a poor tenant farmer's daughter.
She was hard of hearing.
I think she had, her mother seemed to think she'd had scarlet fever or something that affected her hearing.
So she couldn't really, but she was a lip reader.
She could carry on a conversation with you by reading your lips.
It was amazing.
But she didn't have a way to get into school after the sixth grade out in the country, so one year she helped Mrs. Mirka, who I don't know if you ever knew Mrs. Mirka over here that she did taught for years.
Well, she helped her out at Smithtown, and we have a picture.
I'd like to show you that picture of her in the class helping Mrs. Mirka with a student.
Now, whether she got any remuneration or not, I don't know.
But anyhow, when I met her, she was down here working in Ms.
Payne's beauty shop, which was just behind the city barber shop.
It's now Masonic Lodge, I think.
But her husband, Ms.
Payne's husband, was an optometrist.
He had his little business there, and she had a beauty shop in the back.
My wife worked there, and that's where I met her, down there at one time.
When you were dating, where did you take your date?
Well, I remember the first picture we ever went to, a picture show at the Old Palace Theater, she wanted to see Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath because she'd grown up under those kind of conditions.
And that's one of the first movies we ever went to.
And then we only dated a couple months before we got married.
Yeah, there's a picture right there.
Remember, you got that thing off.
Yeah, well, I'll show it to you.
Let's see, were there religious activities on the campus or near the campus then?
Yeah, there were.
I'm sure I wasn't, of course, Catholic.
I'd raised in a Baptist church, but I didn't much go to church after I came down here.
Did many of the students attend?
I don't remember in our outfit of many attending.
I'm sure there were some, but...
I have to admit that I'm not particularly proud of it, but I really don't remember going to church much when I was a student.
Let's see.
Football games were at Kyle Field.
Basketball was at DeWare Fieldhouse.
Describe basketball.
You know, Haskell, to be honest, I never was much into basketball, but I'm sure I went to some games, but I just don't have a good recollection of it.
Were the Yale leaders important in those days?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, the Yale leaders were always in white.
And then we'd have, see, we'd have Yale practice in front of the YMCA at night.
And this farmer's fight, I was telling somebody how they've slowed it down.
It used to be a real peppy farmer's fight, farmer's fight, fight, fight, fight.
But now the farmer's fight, farmer's.
I'd have a football game.
I was telling somebody, boy, they slowed it down over the years.
About, did you have a budget?
How much money did you have to spend?
Well, my folks would send me money, but I never, you know, made many trips.
I made all the court trips and things, but I would say $500 a year would allow me to have a little spending money and go to court trips and so on.
So I'd say my whole college, five years of college, cost me about $2,500.
Did you ever hitchhike?
Oh yeah, I hitchhiked.
Describe that.
Well, I'll tell you one notable hitchhike I never forgot.
I got out on the highway to Amarillo and I got a ride right off the highway to Wichita Falls.
I no sooner got out on the highway to Wichita Falls.
Of course, we're in uniforms, you know.
And here comes an ex-Aggie from Wyoming going down to Houston.
And he picked me up and I got two rides right out here in front of the college.
That was the most memorable, but I remember one time I was
Way up at night, stranded west of Fort Worth Highway, and a trucker picked me up, so we used to highway.
Did you ever have a bad hitchhiking experience?
No, I never did.
I haven't had any Aggie yet describe a bad experience.
I'll tell you one thing.
I remember this trucker picked me up one night.
Oh, it was late at night.
Oh, probably 11 o'clock at night or so, and I was on the highway west of Fort Worth, and this trucker picked me up, and we got to talking, and he couldn't believe
that I'd be hitchhiking based on who my father was.
That was so funny.
He just couldn't believe it.
Let's see, Reveille.
Yeah, Reveille.
Was the original Reveille still living?
Oh, yeah.
And there was a senior now that he would have graduated in 37.
He claimed he was one of them, but I don't know.
He claimed he was one of them that picked Reveille up as a pup down there on the highway.
Do you remember any story he told about that experience?
Not exactly that just he and some others saw this dog and picked it up.
That's just in general.
Describe the original Reveille.
What kind of dog and what did she look like?
Well, there's the best picture in the world over here in town barbecue of her.
Oh, no, I know.
Well, she was just a little...
black with a white, let's see, white nose, did you have white feet?
I can't, but mainly black.
And I'll tell you an interesting thing.
She was a racist.
I saw her more than once and other people told me the same thing.
If a black person crossed the campus, which was just usually a worker or somebody, she would start barking.
She may be mistreated or something, but she would bark all of his heels till he got off of campus.
I remember that.
And how big a dog?
Oh, golly, she was, uh, what?
Eighteen inches high, maybe, something like that.
And reckon of what mixed breeds?
Oh, golly, I don't know.
She was just a nondescript mutt approach.
And compared to her short hair.
Yeah, yeah, right.
She was short-haired.
And a nice-looking, like I say, I can see her when I see that picture of Tom Barbecue.
It's just a photo of her.
During your student days, in what dormitory did Raveli normally see?
I would think, it seemed like to me we very seldom saw her
around over in our area.
See, we were right across from Bazell Hall and Hart, and then next to it in Goodwin, and then I was back in Hart my third year, and then the fourth year I was on the campus.
I was with the football boys over in the Newdarms.
They built the M38, so in 39 I was in the Newdarm, and last year I was off the campus.
So you think she was over in the Northgate area?
I think she was mostly around law and prayer would be my idea.
And maybe some of those other, Mitchell or something.
Did you see her much in the classroom buildings during the daytime?
No, I don't recall seeing her much.
What about in the dining hall?
No, I never saw her in the dining hall.
I don't believe she was allowed in the dining hall.
Because, see, that was in the jurisdiction pretty much of the Army.
Those enlisted men were at the door there in Sabisa Hall.
So I don't think they put up with her.
During your years here, describe the typical Aggie student.
Where were they from?
What kind of families?
What were their attitudes?
Well, of course these were Depression boys, you know, that came here in those days.
I was in the Amarillo Company, but I was the only fresh
I don't remember another freshman from Amarillo, sophomores mainly.
Could I get you some warmer coffee?
No, no, I'm doing fine.
And the Hill Country boys, mostly our outfit
There were some South Texas boys from down in South Texas, and I'd say mostly came out from farms and ranches.
I was more or less a city boy.
Were they poor, working class, rich?
I would say the great majority of them were German boys now.
The Hill Country boys were German, and they were probably from the ranch and grew up on a ranch.
I guess they had...
Folks probably had a little money and sent them to school, but some of them worked, you know, in the mess halls and things like that, waiters and things.
Well, in their attitudes, what, in their behavior?
Well, as a real leader, pretty well, our attitude was pretty well behaved.
I want to tell you a story before I forget it.
This happened in A Company when I was a freshman.
I believe it was A Infantry.
They were in, I believe, Foster Hall.
You know, I remember an hour of dormitory and it was common, I think, a student would have a candy concession and you have a table sitting in the hall with a cigar box and then the candy and you put your money in the cigar box.
Well, this, I wasn't a witness to this, but
I heard it from pretty reliable sources, I believe it was over in Foster Hall, right at the beginning of school when the people first came in, they caught a couple of guys, somebody caught them, pre-freshmen, no they didn't roll, all right, taking money out of the cigar box, stealing money, and they kicked them out.
Now who kicked them out?
I don't have all those details, but probably somebody told the seniors and they said hit the road.
Well, in those days we called the commandant the bull's office, that is a common, you know, bull.
And about three days after school started, the bull called over and wanted to know where these students were.
And somebody told them they hit the road, they were stealing.
And that was all.
Can you imagine what would happen today?
Today we'd have to have three.
Car loads of lawyers on both sides.
That was a simple matter.
Was the campus basically honest then?
I think it was, yeah.
Did you, you didn't lock your room?
No.
And we didn't have anything stolen.
Didn't have anything stolen.
No, I don't think there was anything.
How many students had cars?
Well, now, see, I didn't have a car in my fifth year when I was off campus.
But I'll tell you, I'll tell you, Haskily, I would like to see a picture.
And I asked Dave Chapman about it, and he couldn't come up with the picture.
But I well remember, when I was 36, and I don't know for how long, all the off-campus parking was across the post office up there for about 60 to 75 yards down there.
That was all the parking.
Now, you wouldn't believe that.
Today, a person that says all this...
Giant traffic jam here wouldn't believe it, but that's what it was.
So I don't think...
I don't think many seniors even had cars.
Even some of the profs didn't have cars.
And most of the faculty and staff lived on the campus.
Right.
Did you students ever make any noise over there, ever play any pranks on their houses?
No, I never did.
Now whether there was any done, I don't know.
I'm not heard of any.
No, I haven't either.
Did you notice any of the little boys, like did you know Little Red Cashin and any of those kids?
No, I didn't know them.
When they were growing up?
No, I sure didn't.
Let's see, what did, on a wild Saturday night, if a group of Aggies were going to have a big time, where did they go and what did they do?
Well, I'll give you a good example.
We had a little fellow in our outfit named Hatch, and he would, he was a short little old fellow and very slim.
He would go to, Brian, this is just one extreme example though, but he would go to Brian on a Saturday afternoon and he would,
I never went with him, but I had good authority that by midnight when he came staggering back to the campus, he would have gone through a case of beer.
But that was about what they'd do.
Some of the Aggies would go to Bryan and drink beer.
What were the best known places to drink beer?
Well, like I say, Deluxe Cafe in Bryan.
That was one of them.
There were some other places.
Now, when I was a senior, we would...
We had a friend who had a car out east my first year before I had a car and we would borrow the car out in the country and then we'd go to the Deluxe Cafe and have an open paste steak sandwich on a Saturday night, my friend and I.
maybe a few other vets and then we had this car and then we'd go picking up some, try to pick up some dates and just go honky-tonking around, but that was a senior.
Not only a freshman, sophomore, junior.
Was Uncle Ed's open yet?
Oh yeah, yeah.
Describe Uncle Ed's.
Hard lickers, yeah.
Do you know, to be honest, Askel, I never,
I don't think I was ever in there.
Now, with Franklin's, I was at Franklin's.
That was another little place later on.
Describe Franklin's.
Well, it was just a little place sitting back in the woods there.
Where was it?
Where was Franklin's?
It's out on West University Drive.
I think you can still see the little clearing there where it was on the right.
And it's nothing there anymore.
All right.
On the north side?
It'd be on the north side.
Beyond where the vet school is now.
Oh yeah, it's past the vet school out there in the bushes.
It'd be across roughly from the University Park there.
And it's just a little old white building as I recall.
All right, now beer was legal in Brazos County at that time.
Yeah, apparently so, because you'd get it over at the Eastgate.
Where did people... There wasn't a Northgate beer place like it is now, no.
Where did people get whiskey?
You went across the river to right across the river bridge.
Did y'all call it Whiskey Bridge?
Yeah, they called it Whiskey Bridge, but I never was into whiskey much.
I didn't drink occasional beer, but I never went.
Did you ever go to the clay pits?
No, I heard of them.
I've seen them, but I don't think I ever went there in my student days.
I don't really know what all went on out there.
What were people smoking then?
Smoking?
Well, cigar and cigarettes, all I know.
I never heard of pot in those days.
Did anybody roll their own cigarettes?
Yeah, I believe a few of those old boys from the cow country rolled their cigarettes, yeah.
And did anybody, did students smoke a pipe?
Let me see.
Seems like I remember one of those German boys smoking a pipe.
Were you allowed to smoke in your room?
In your dormitory room?
Yeah, I think so.
Best I remember.
But I never had any roommates that smoked.
Uh, and you, did you even know the word marijuana when you were?
No, I never, don't think I'd ever heard of that.
And I'm a little younger than you and I sure hadn't either.
I want to tell you something before I forget though.
Okay.
Do you have any idea how much, when I was a freshman, I don't know whether it went on how much longer after that, but do you have any idea how much it cost you if you were an Aggie on the campus to go to Bryan?
A guy, and I don't know, there were more than one person, whether it was a company or what, I never found out, but there were guys that were constantly driving around through the campus.
And if they picked up five Aggies, it was a dime apiece to go to Brown.
If they picked up one Aggie, it was a quarter.
Have you, I guess you've heard that before.
No, no, that's good.
Yeah.
Quarter to go.
Where these, these were not students.
No, I don't think so.
They were just people, and I really, I'm sure you can find the history of them, but I don't know their background or anything, but they'd cruise around the campus, and you wouldn't have to wait long if somebody would come by, and that was the rage.
And they were not officially taxis?
I don't think so, no.
What was at the North Gate?
Describe the businesses at North Gate.
Well, there was, as I recall, both those, where Lupot's building was, that building was there, and, of course, Hollick's Boot Shop was there.
By the way, my wife was kind of related to the Hollicks, and I don't know if you've ever heard this story, but Johnny Hollick, he's still living over there, the last of the Hollick brothers, he told me that his dad, who started the first Aggie band here,
Joe Hollick, and he lived to be 103 I think.
Old Joe, Brian, when he passed, when he was about to pass away, I don't know how many years he was blind, but he was a cowboy.
He came here and Saul Ross gave him a room over in one of the dormitories to fix Aggie boots and shoes, and then from there he went on and became a, he was a musician.
But Johnny told me that Saul Ross gave him a room to work on boots and shoes for the cadets.
Alright, was the campus theater open when you were a student?
Yeah, it was open.
How often did students go?
Well, I'm sure you went on the weekends.
Do you remember any movies you saw that were special to you?
Anywhere?
No, I remember, well, let's see, the movie I must remember is when my wife and I was telling you we went to Palace and saw Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath.
Grapes of Wrath.
Now I've heard that people during Guy and Hall movies, or maybe the old movie theater, that they would, you said they'd throw peanuts and they also made noise too, didn't they?
Yeah, Sunday afternoon, it was, I'd say the most boring movies that you'd ever seen in your life, the government made them, and I guess they were free, and I don't think you wouldn't have paid for them, so you'd better spot peanuts and threw peanuts mainly, peanuts all over the floor.
Did the Tessies come down here for dates during that?
Yeah, they would vacate a dorm and when they had dances here they would vacate a dorm for the girls and they'd come down here, yeah.
How were they treated?
Well, pretty well.
I never had a date but some of them were kind of, you know.
Did they come on the train or the bus?
You know I'm not for sure, but they did.
I remember vacating a few times.
What'd you do in the summers?
Well, I went, my dad, my first year here in 36, I went home Christmas.
I think we went on a bus then, you know, and then he took me out.
He just bought the ranch in November and he took me out there to see the ranch in the winter of 36.
And then, well, we just had our Christmas there and then came on back to A&M.
And then school in those days wasn't out before Christmas.
You had midterm after January there.
That's what I was telling you about that big ice storm I had.
But then in the summer, did you have jobs back home?
Well, then that summer, I went back on the ranch.
That was the summer of 37, yeah.
And I worked on the ranch that summer, and then the following summer.
Doing regular ranch work, you know, digging post holes, putting up hay and stuff.
All right, and you're admitted to vet school at the end of your first year here?
The first semester.
Well, no, I changed the veterinary medicine at midterm of 37, but then I...